.TH bbs_blind_sign_with_nym 3 2026-03-14 libbbs
.SH NAME
bbs_blind_sign_with_nym, bbs_blind_verify_with_nym \- create and verify blind
BBS signatures with pseudonyms
.SH LIBRARY
BBS Signatures
.RI ( libbbs ,\~ \-lbbs )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <bbs_blind_with_nym.h>
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_sign_with_nym(" "size_t num_messages;"
.BI "                            const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                            const bbs_secret_key " sk ", const bbs_public_key " pk ","
.BI "                            bbs_signature " signature ","
.BI "                            const void * " signer_nym_entropy ", size_t " length_nym_vector ","
.BI "                            const void * " header ", size_t " header_len ","
.BI "                            const void * " commitment_with_proof ", size_t " commitment_with_proof_len ","
.BI "                            size_t " num_messages ","
.BI "                            const void *const " messages [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                            const size_t " message_lens [ num_messages "]);"
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_verify_with_nym(" "size_t num_messages, num_committed_messages, num_pseudonyms;"
.BI "                              const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                              const bbs_public_key " pk ","
.BI "                              const bbs_signature " signature ","
.BI "                              const void * " header ", size_t " header_len ","
.BI "                              size_t " num_messages ","
.BI "                              const void *const " messages [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                              const size_t " message_lens [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                              size_t " num_committed_messages ","
.BI "                              const void *const " committed_messages [ num_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                              const size_t " committed_message_lens [ num_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                              const uint8_t " secret_prover_blind "[BBS_BLIND_SECRET_PROVER_BLIND_LEN],"
.BI "                              const void * " signer_nym_entropy ","
.BI "                              size_t " num_pseudonyms ","
.BI "                              const void *const " prover_nyms [ num_pseudonyms "],"
.BI "                              void *const " nym_secrets [ num_pseudonyms "]);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions extend
.BR bbs_blind_sign (3)
and
.BR bbs_blind_verify (3)
to support per-verifier pseudonyms.
For a description of the general blind signing flow, the
.IR commitment_with_proof ,
.IR secret_prover_blind ,
.IR header ,
and the sensitivity of the signature, see
.BR bbs_blind_sign (3).
For a description of nym_secrets, the signer_nym_entropy, and pseudonyms, see
.BR bbs_blind_with_nym (7).
.P
All functions take a pointer to a
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type)
to use, which determines several parameters for the scheme.
.SS bbs_blind_sign_with_nym()
Extends
.BR bbs_blind_sign ()
by incorporating
.I signer_nym_entropy
into the signature.
This binds the signer's contribution to the nym_secrets that the prover
committed, preventing a dishonest prover from manipulating their pseudonym.
.I length_nym_vector
is the number of nym_secrets in the commitment.
.I signer_nym_entropy
must be a freshly generated random value for each signing operation. It does
not need to be kept secret after signing.
Otherwise the parameters and behaviour are identical to
.BR bbs_blind_sign (3).
.SS bbs_blind_verify_with_nym()
Extends
.BR bbs_blind_verify ()
by recovering the nym_secrets from the signature.
In addition to verifying the signature over the signer-known and committed
messages, the function derives and writes the nym_secrets into the
.I nym_secrets
output array.
The caller must provide
.I num_pseudonyms
pre-allocated 32-byte buffers in
.IR nym_secrets .
.P
.I prover_nyms
provides the original nym_secret values as committed in
.IR commitment_with_proof ,
in the same order as during
.BR bbs_blind_commit_with_nym (3).
.I signer_nym_entropy
must match the value used during
.BR bbs_blind_sign_with_nym ().
.P
The recovered
.I nym_secrets
are sensitive and must be stored securely by the prover for use with
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym (3).
They should be erased with
.BR memset_explicit (3)
when the credential is revoked or abandoned.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns
.B BBS_OK
on success.
All other return values denote an error, the exact meaning of which may change
in the future.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attribute (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR bbs_blind_sign_with_nym (),
.BR bbs_blind_verify_with_nym ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH STANDARDS
The
.BR bbs_blind_sign_with_nym ()
and
.BR bbs_blind_verify_with_nym ()
functions implement the corresponding algorithms from
.IR draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-per-verifier-linkability-02 .
.SH CAVEATS
The
.BR bbs_blind_sign_with_nym ()
function emits a call to the POSIX 2024.1-2024 function
.BR getentropy (3).
On non-POSIX systems, this function has to be provided by the application at
link-time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bbs_blind_with_nym (7),
.BR bbs_blind (7),
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type),
.BR bbs_keygen (3),
.BR bbs_blind_commit_with_nym (3),
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym (3),
.BR getentropy (3)
