.TH bbs_ciphersuite 7 2025-12-17 libbbs
.SH NAME
bbs_ciphersuite \- Parameters for the Boneh-Boyen-Shacham (BBS) signature scheme
.SH LIBRARY
BBS Signatures
.RI ( libbbs, \~ \-lbbs )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <bbs.h>
.P
.BI "typedef struct _bbs_ciphersuite bbs_ciphersuite;"
.P
.BI "extern const bbs_ciphersuite *const " bbs_sha256_ciphersuite ";"
.BI "extern const bbs_ciphersuite *const " bbs_shake256_ciphersuite ";"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The BBS signature scheme is defined in terms of hash functions and elliptic
curves with an efficiently computable pairing. Given the many choices (good and
bad) of combinations thereof,
.I libbbs
provides constants to select one of few standardized combinations. Care should
be taken to not use key pairs and signatures generated using one ciphersuite in
functions expecting a different ciphersuite, to guard against specification
oversights in these corner cases.
.P
All choices are assumed to provide roughly 128 bits of forgeability protection
against non-quantum attacks, and 128 bits of long-term privacy protection for
undisclosed messages in proofs.
.P
The exact choice of ciphersuite is irrelevant for most applications. However,
applications must choose the same one to interoperate. Multiple choices are
provided mainly to facilitate the implementation of protocols with distinct
preferences.
.P
The currently supported ciphersuites are as follows:
.SS bbs_sha256_ciphersuite
Implements the
.I BLS12-381-SHA-256
ciphersuite, using the elliptic curve BLS12-381 and the sha2-256 hash function
in extensible message digest (XMD) mode.
.SS bbs_shake256_ciphersuite
Implements the
.I BLS12-381-SHAKE-256
ciphersuite, using the elliptic curve BLS12-381 and the shake256 extendable
output function (XOF).
.SH STANDARDS
The currently implemented ciphersuites correspond to
.I draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures-09.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bbs (7),
.BR bbs_keygen (3),
.BR bbs_sign (3),
.BR bbs_proof_gen (3),
