.TH bbs_blind_commit_with_nym 3 2026-03-14 libbbs
.SH NAME
bbs_blind_commit_with_nym \- create a commitment for blind BBS signatures with pseudonyms
.SH LIBRARY
BBS Signatures
.RI ( libbbs ,\~ \-lbbs )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <bbs_blind_with_nym.h>
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_commit_with_nym(" "size_t num_messages, num_prover_nyms;"
.BI "                              const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                              void * " commitment_with_proof ","
.BI "                              uint8_t " secret_prover_blind "[BBS_BLIND_SECRET_PROVER_BLIND_LEN],"
.BI "                              size_t " num_messages ","
.BI "                              const void *const " messages [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                              const size_t " message_lens [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                              size_t " num_prover_nyms ","
.BI "                              const void *const " prover_nyms [ num_prover_nyms "]);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR bbs_blind_commit_with_nym ()
function extends
.BR bbs_blind_commit (3)
by additionally committing to one or more prover-controlled pseudonym values.
The
.I num_prover_nyms
values in
.I prover_nyms
are committed alongside the
.I num_messages
regular committed messages.
The signer never learns either.
For a description of the commitment mechanism, the outputs, and the
sensitivity of the
.IR secret_prover_blind ,
see
.BR bbs_blind_commit (3).
.P
The caller must allocate
.I BBS_BLIND_COMMITMENT_LEN(num_messages + num_prover_nyms)
bytes for
.IR commitment_with_proof .
.P
If no regular committed messages are needed,
.I num_messages
may be zero and
.I messages
and
.I message_lens
may be NULL.
.I num_prover_nyms
must be at least one.
.P
This function takes a pointer to a
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type)
to use, which determines several parameters for the scheme.
This function is compatible with
.B bbs_blind_nym_sha256_ciphersuite
and
.B bbs_blind_nym_shake256_ciphersuite
only.
Using a ciphersuite from
.I <bbs.h>
or
.I <bbs_blind.h>
will produce an error.
Keys generated with any ciphersuite may be used here; see
.BR bbs_keygen (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns
.B BBS_OK
on success.
All other return values denote an error, the exact meaning of which may change
in the future.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attribute (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR bbs_blind_commit_with_nym ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH STANDARDS
The
.BR bbs_blind_commit_with_nym ()
function implements the
.I CommitWithNym
algorithm from
.IR draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-per-verifier-linkability-02 .
.SH CAVEATS
The
.BR bbs_blind_commit_with_nym ()
function emits a call to the POSIX 2024.1-2024 function
.BR getentropy (3).
On non-POSIX systems, this function has to be provided by the application at
link-time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bbs_blind_with_nym (7),
.BR bbs_blind (7),
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type),
.BR bbs_blind_commit (3),
.BR bbs_blind_sign_with_nym (3),
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym (3),
.BR getentropy (3)
