.TH bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym 3 2026-03-14 libbbs
.SH NAME
bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym, bbs_blind_proof_verify_with_nym \- create and
verify blind BBS selective disclosure proofs with pseudonyms
.SH LIBRARY
BBS Signatures
.RI ( libbbs ,\~ \-lbbs )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <bbs_blind_with_nym.h>
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym(" "size_t num_messages, num_committed_messages, num_nym_secrets;"
.BI "                                 const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                                 const bbs_public_key " pk ","
.BI "                                 const bbs_signature " signature ","
.BI "                                 void * " proof ", bbs_pseudonym " pseudonym ","
.BI "                                 const void * " header ", size_t " header_len ","
.BI "                                 const void * " presentation_header ", size_t " presentation_header_len ","
.BI "                                 const void * " context_id ", size_t " context_id_len ","
.BI "                                 size_t " num_messages ","
.BI "                                 const void *const " messages [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                                 const size_t " message_lens [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                                 size_t " num_committed_messages ","
.BI "                                 const void *const " committed_messages [ num_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                                 const size_t " committed_message_lens [ num_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                                 size_t " num_disclosed_indexes ","
.BI "                                 const size_t " disclosed_indexes [ num_disclosed_indexes "],"
.BI "                                 size_t " num_disclosed_committed_indexes ","
.BI "                                 const size_t " disclosed_committed_indexes [ num_disclosed_committed_indexes "],"
.BI "                                 const uint8_t " secret_prover_blind "[BBS_BLIND_SECRET_PROVER_BLIND_LEN],"
.BI "                                 size_t " num_nym_secrets ","
.BI "                                 const void *const " nym_secrets [ num_nym_secrets "]);"
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_proof_verify_with_nym(" "size_t num_signer_known_messages,"
.BI "                                    num_disclosed_messages, num_disclosed_committed_messages;"
.BI "                                    const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                                    const bbs_public_key " pk ","
.BI "                                    bbs_pseudonym " pseudonym ","
.BI "                                    const void * " proof ", size_t " proof_len ","
.BI "                                    const void * " header ", size_t " header_len ","
.BI "                                    const void * " presentation_header ", size_t " presentation_header_len ","
.BI "                                    const void * " context_id ", size_t " context_id_len ","
.BI "                                    size_t " length_nym_vector ","
.BI "                                    size_t " num_signer_known_messages ","
.BI "                                    size_t " num_disclosed_messages ","
.BI "                                    const void *const " disclosed_messages [ num_disclosed_messages "],"
.BI "                                    const size_t " disclosed_message_lens [ num_disclosed_messages "],"
.BI "                                    const size_t " disclosed_indexes [ num_disclosed_messages "],"
.BI "                                    size_t " num_disclosed_committed_messages ","
.BI "                                    const void *const " disclosed_committed_messages [ num_disclosed_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                                    const size_t " disclosed_committed_message_lens [ num_disclosed_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                                    const size_t " disclosed_committed_indexes [ num_disclosed_committed_messages "]);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions extend
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen (3)
and
.BR bbs_blind_proof_verify (3)
to produce and verify proofs that include a per-verifier pseudonym.
For a description of the general blind proof flow, selective disclosure,
.IR proof_len ,
.IR presentation_header ,
and index ordering, see
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen (3).
For a description of nym_secrets, the context_id, and pseudonyms, see
.BR bbs_blind_with_nym (7).
.P
All functions take a pointer to a
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type)
to use, which determines several parameters for the scheme.
.SS bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym()
Extends
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen ()
with two additional features.
First, the
.I num_nym_secrets
nym_secrets in
.I nym_secrets
are included in the proof as undisclosed committed values.
Second, a pseudonym is computed from the nym_secrets and the
.I context_id
and written to
.IR pseudonym .
The pseudonym is an output.
.P
The nym_secrets must not be added to the disclosed index arrays.
.P
The proof length is given by
.I BBS_PROOF_LEN(num_undisclosed)
where
.I num_undisclosed
counts all undisclosed signer-known messages, all undisclosed committed
messages, the secret_prover_blind, and all nym_secrets.
.SS bbs_blind_proof_verify_with_nym()
Extends
.BR bbs_blind_proof_verify ()
to also verify the pseudonym.
.I pseudonym
must be the value produced by
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym ()
for the same prover and context.
.I context_id
must match the value used during proof generation.
.I length_nym_vector
is the total number of nym_secrets in the proof, whether or not any messages
from the same commitment are disclosed.
.P
The nym_secrets themselves are not required by the verifier.
The function confirms that the pseudonym in
.I pseudonym
was correctly derived from secrets that are covered by the signature.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns
.B BBS_OK
on success.
All other return values denote an error, the exact meaning of which may change
in the future.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attribute (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym (),
.BR bbs_blind_proof_verify_with_nym ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH STANDARDS
The
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym ()
and
.BR bbs_blind_proof_verify_with_nym ()
functions implement the corresponding algorithms from
.IR draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-per-verifier-linkability-02 .
.SH CAVEATS
The
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen_with_nym ()
function emits a call to the POSIX 2024.1-2024 function
.BR getentropy (3).
On non-POSIX systems, this function has to be provided by the application at
link-time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bbs_blind_with_nym (7),
.BR bbs_blind (7),
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type),
.BR bbs_keygen (3),
.BR bbs_blind_commit_with_nym (3),
.BR bbs_blind_sign_with_nym (3),
.BR getentropy (3)
