.TH bbs_blind_sign 3 2026-03-10 libbbs
.SH NAME
bbs_blind_sign, bbs_blind_verify \- create and verify blind BBS signatures
.SH LIBRARY
BBS Signatures
.RI ( libbbs ,\~ \-lbbs )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <bbs_blind.h>
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_sign(" "size_t num_messages;"
.BI "                   const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                   const bbs_secret_key " sk ", const bbs_public_key " pk ","
.BI "                   bbs_signature " signature ","
.BI "                   const void * " header ", size_t " header_len ","
.BI "                   const void * " commitment_with_proof ", size_t " commitment_with_proof_len ","
.BI "                   size_t " num_messages ","
.BI "                   const void *const " messages [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                   const size_t " message_lens [ num_messages "]);"
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_verify(" "size_t num_messages, num_committed_messages;"
.BI "                     const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                     const bbs_public_key " pk ","
.BI "                     const bbs_signature " signature ","
.BI "                     const void * " header ", size_t " header_len ","
.BI "                     size_t " num_messages ","
.BI "                     const void *const " messages [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                     const size_t " message_lens [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                     size_t " num_committed_messages ","
.BI "                     const void *const " committed_messages [ num_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                     const size_t " committed_message_lens [ num_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                     const uint8_t " secret_prover_blind "[BBS_BLIND_SECRET_PROVER_BLIND_LEN]);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The blind BBS signature functions create and verify a BBS signature that covers
both signer-known messages and messages committed to by the prover, where the
committed messages are not revealed to the signer.
.P
The special message
.I header
of length
.I header_len
bytes must always be disclosed to verifiers.
Like all BBS signatures, the
.I signature
is considered sensitive and must not be disclosed.
See
.BR bbs_blind (7)
for a full explanation.
.P
All functions take a pointer to a
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type)
to use, which determines several parameters for the scheme.
.SS bbs_blind_sign()
Signs the
.I num_messages
signer-known messages in
.I messages
together with the committed messages encoded in
.I commitment_with_proof
of length
.I commitment_with_proof_len
bytes, as produced by
.BR bbs_blind_commit (3).
The function verifies the commitment-with-proof before signing.
If
.I commitment_with_proof
is NULL or
.I commitment_with_proof_len
is zero, the function produces a regular signature over the signer-known
messages only.
The result is stored in
.IR signature .
.SS bbs_blind_verify()
Verifies that
.I signature
is valid over the
.I num_messages
signer-known messages in
.I messages
and the
.I num_committed_messages
committed messages in
.I committed_messages,
using the public key
.IR pk .
The
.I secret_prover_blind
produced by
.BR bbs_blind_commit (3)
must be provided.
If no commitment was used,
.I secret_prover_blind
may be NULL and
.I num_committed_messages
may be zero.
Messages must be provided in the same order as during
.BR bbs_blind_sign ().
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns
.B BBS_OK
on success.
All other return values denote an error, the exact meaning of which may change
in the future.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attribute (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR bbs_blind_sign (),
.BR bbs_blind_verify ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH STANDARDS
The
.BR bbs_blind_sign ()
and
.BR bbs_blind_verify ()
functions implement the corresponding algorithms from
.I draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-blind-signatures-02.
.SH CAVEATS
The
.BR bbs_blind_sign ()
function emits a call to the POSIX 2024.1-2024 function
.BR getentropy (3).
On non-POSIX systems, this function has to be provided by the application at
link-time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bbs_blind (7),
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type),
.BR bbs_keygen (3),
.BR bbs_blind_commit (3),
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen (3),
.BR getentropy (3)
