.TH bbs_blind_proof_gen 3 2026-03-10 libbbs
.SH NAME
bbs_blind_proof_gen, bbs_blind_proof_verify \- create and verify blind BBS
selective disclosure proofs
.SH LIBRARY
BBS Signatures
.RI ( libbbs ,\~ \-lbbs )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <bbs_blind.h>
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_proof_gen(" "size_t num_messages, num_committed_messages;"
.BI "                        const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                        const bbs_public_key " pk ","
.BI "                        const bbs_signature " signature ", void * " proof ","
.BI "                        const void * " header ", size_t " header_len ","
.BI "                        const void * " presentation_header ", size_t " presentation_header_len ","
.BI "                        size_t " num_messages ","
.BI "                        const void *const " messages [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                        const size_t " message_lens [ num_messages "],"
.BI "                        size_t " num_committed_messages ","
.BI "                        const void *const " committed_messages [ num_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                        const size_t " committed_message_lens [ num_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                        size_t " num_disclosed_indexes ","
.BI "                        const size_t " disclosed_indexes [ num_disclosed_indexes "],"
.BI "                        size_t " num_disclosed_committed_indexes ","
.BI "                        const size_t " disclosed_committed_indexes [ num_disclosed_committed_indexes "],"
.BI "                        const uint8_t " secret_prover_blind "[BBS_BLIND_SECRET_PROVER_BLIND_LEN]);"
.P
.BR "int bbs_blind_proof_verify(" "size_t num_signer_known_messages,"
.BI "                           num_disclosed_messages, num_disclosed_committed_messages;"
.BI "                           const bbs_ciphersuite * " ciphersuite ","
.BI "                           const bbs_public_key " pk ","
.BI "                           const void * " proof ", size_t " proof_len ","
.BI "                           const void * " header ", size_t " header_len ","
.BI "                           const void * " presentation_header ", size_t " presentation_header_len ","
.BI "                           size_t " num_signer_known_messages ","
.BI "                           size_t " num_disclosed_messages ","
.BI "                           const void *const " disclosed_messages [ num_disclosed_messages "],"
.BI "                           const size_t " disclosed_message_lens [ num_disclosed_messages "],"
.BI "                           const size_t " disclosed_indexes [ num_disclosed_messages "],"
.BI "                           size_t " num_disclosed_committed_messages ","
.BI "                           const void *const " disclosed_committed_messages [ num_disclosed_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                           const size_t " disclosed_committed_message_lens [ num_disclosed_committed_messages "],"
.BI "                           const size_t " disclosed_committed_indexes [ num_disclosed_committed_messages "]);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The blind BBS proof functions create and verify selective disclosure proofs
from a blind BBS signature.
The proof can disclose any subset of the signer-known messages and any subset
of the committed messages, without revealing the remaining messages or the
signature itself.
.P
The special message
.I header
of length
.I header_len
bytes must always be disclosed.
With every proof, an optional message
.I presentation_header
of length
.I presentation_header_len
bytes may be authenticated.
This can be used to prevent replay of proofs by incorporating a challenge
nonce.
.P
The length in bytes of a blind BBS proof depends on the number of undisclosed
messages and is given by
.IR BBS_PROOF_LEN(num_undisclosed) ,
where
.I num_undisclosed
is the total number of messages not disclosed, counting both signer-known and
committed messages, plus one for the secret_prover_blind.
.P
All functions take a pointer to a
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type)
to use, which determines several parameters for the scheme.
.SS bbs_blind_proof_gen()
Creates a selective disclosure proof from a valid blind signature.
The full set of signer-known messages must be provided in
.I messages
and the full set of committed messages in
.IR committed_messages ,
both in the same order as during the signature operation.
The indices of the signer-known messages to disclose are given in ascending
order in
.IR disclosed_indexes ,
and the indices of the committed messages to disclose in
.IR disclosed_committed_indexes .
The
.I secret_prover_blind
produced by
.BR bbs_blind_commit (3)
must be provided.
If no commitment was used,
.I secret_prover_blind
may be NULL.
The result is stored in
.IR proof .
.SS bbs_blind_proof_verify()
Verifies that
.I proof
of length
.I proof_len
bytes was created from a valid blind signature over a set of messages
authenticated with
.IR pk .
Only the disclosed messages are required.
The
.I num_signer_known_messages
parameter gives the total number of signer-known messages the signature
covers, including those not disclosed.
.P
The
.I num_disclosed_messages
messages in
.I disclosed_messages
correspond to the indices in
.IR disclosed_indexes .
The
.I num_disclosed_committed_messages
messages in
.I disclosed_committed_messages
correspond to the indices in
.IR disclosed_committed_indexes .
All index arrays must be in ascending order.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns
.B BBS_OK
on success.
All other return values denote an error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attribute (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen (),
.BR bbs_blind_proof_verify ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.SH STANDARDS
The
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen ()
and
.BR bbs_blind_proof_verify ()
functions implement the corresponding algorithms from
.I draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-blind-signatures-02.
.SH CAVEATS
The
.BR bbs_blind_proof_gen ()
function emits a call to the POSIX 2024.1-2024 function
.BR getentropy (3).
On non-POSIX systems, this function has to be provided by the application at
link-time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bbs_blind (7),
.BR bbs_ciphersuite (3type),
.BR bbs_keygen (3),
.BR bbs_blind_commit (3),
.BR bbs_blind_sign (3),
.BR getentropy (3)
